Variables
1. What is a variable? Why might a programmer use a variable?
- Variable is a basic type of contrainer to store data. Can be accessed throughout the program and changed

2.Ruby will first replace first_name with "Abraham" then replace last_name with "Lincoln"

Data Types
3.
String - holds and manipulates the sequence of bytes typcially characters that represent human language
Integer - is a number without decimal points
Float - float is a number with decimal points
Nil - no data
Boolean - true or false

Algorithms
4. What is an algorithm?
- step by step procedue for calculations. Used for calculation, data processing, and automated reasoning

5. What are two common categories of algorithm in computer science?
- Divide and Conquer Algorithm: divides the problem into smaller subproblems of the same type and solves subproblems into a solution that address the original problem
- Dynamic Programming Algorithm: remembers past results and uses them to find new results

Methods
6. What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method?
- Set of procedure(s) that we can call to execute a certain actions. Programmers might choose to use a method to save time and reuse a program. Methods are automated to quickly find a solution and return a value.

7. Define the following terms as the relate to a method
Return Value: last expression evaulated
Side Effect: method or function can have a side effect when it changes some state. Modificaiton to fucntion that's not the return
Parameter: variable in the declariation of function
Argument: argument is actual value of variable that's passed into function
Implicit Return: returns the last value evaluated

8. What are global scope and method scope? How do those scopes impact the availability of data at different points in a program?
- Global Scope that covers the entire program. Global scope is enjoyed by global variables, which are recognizable by their initial $
- Method Scope is scoped inside a particular method

Control Flow
9. What is control flow? Why might a programmer choose to use flow control?
- Control flow: Conditionals and loops change the flow of a Ruby program. Conditionals are keywords that execute a certain statement under a specific condition. Loops are blocks of program that are executed many times. When the program runs, the statements are executed one by one from top to bottom.

10. Define the following terms as they relate to flow control.
loop
if: if statement checks if an expression is true. If true, a statement is then executed. The statement can be a single statement or a compound statement. A compound statement consists of multiple statements enclosed

else: Creates a simple branch. If the if keyword segment is false, the statement after the else keyword is automatically executed.

elsif: This keyword tests for another condition if and only if the previous condition was not met. We can use multiple elsif keywords in our tests.

while: while loop stops when condition is false

until: loop stops when condition is true